I would say every single person that I've worked with over the almost
five years I've been down here has been in the position they're in
because of trauma. Everyone is somebody's brother, sister, parent, child,
friend, what you know everyone has a relationship to somebody and you know
the hardest part of my job is when I hear clients talk about
the stigma they faced in a system that I'm a part of.
For example, even yesterday I was trying to support somebody to the emergency
room who was really really sick and the words out of his mouth
were "I can't go until I get a haircut because I'm scared that
that they're gonna treat me differently because of how I look,
because I'm homeless and because I use drugs."
And that broke my heart. People who are severely entrenched in their substance
use who have unmet health care needs and for a lot of people
that that usually involves making many interactions in the health care system
but in a way that's not meaningful to them. So for example they
might be accessing the emergency room like four or five, six,
seven days a week, but they're not ever getting their needs met.
Essentially it's like a one stop shop where people can come into
a health care center and have all their needs met both medically and psychosocially,
so there's you know social work, there's mental health, there's primary
care, sexual health, addictions, whatever it is that you may need to be
seen for in a community health setting, you can accomplish all in one
place. It's not about what my goals are for the client,
it's about what their goals are for themselves and so you know one
of the ways that we do that is initially by just building rapport
with people and sometimes that looks very different for different people.
Like for example I have a client on my caseload that for the
first probably six or seven months of knowing him all I was able
to get done was his taxes and and that sounds kind of funny,
because I'm a nurse, but that's what he needed at that time in
order to build trust with me, so that I could support him to
access the services he needed from there. I think another thing that's really
important is there's this huge stigma in health care around, it's a term
that I hate, but people say behavioral patients or difficult patients.
And I don't think that's a real thing, I think that people display
certain behaviors, because needs are not met, and so
those types of terms like behavioral and difficult, they put a lot of
blame on the patient or the client, and they take a lot of
responsibility off the health care provider. And I think it's really the
reverse of that, we need to look at "Are they in pain?
Are they hungry? Are they feeling scared and feeling like they're not understanding
what's going on with their care?" And until we can do that like we
have so far to go as healthcare providers.